bcp-003-01-securing-communications.md, before:

# AMWA BCP-003-01: Securing Communications in NMOS Systems
{:.no_toc}

* A markdown unordered list which will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents header" from above
{:toc}

## Scope

This document specifies how to secure communications used for HTTP and WebSocket communications within NMOS APIs.

This is based on best practice used for HTTPS, and is intended to promote a secure approach to interoperability.

The recommendations are also suitable for other APIs beyond NMOS.

Use of insecure communication (plain HTTP etc.) is forbidden within the scope of this document.

Fine-grained Client authorization --
providing a mechanism to determine what actions a Client may take against an API --
is not in scope, but may be part of a future revision.

Use of HTTP/2 is not in scope, but may be part of a future revision.

Securing video and audio transport is not in scope.

Although security of web pages presented to users is also important,
this is outside the scope of this document, which is concerned only with APIs.

## Use of Normative Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][RFC-2119].

## Normative References

These appear at the end of the Markdown source for this document,
and are referenced as hyperlinks within the main body.

## Definitions

_See also the NMOS Glossary, and definitions within RFCs._

### API

An HTTP / WebSocket API as defined in an AMWA NMOS Specification (IS-04, IS-05, IS-06, etc.)

### Server

The entity that is providing the API, for example:

- a registry implementing IS-04 Registration and Query APIs
- a Node implementing IS-04 Node API and IS-05 Connection API

### Client

The entity that is using the API, for example:

- a Node using the IS-04 Registration API
- a monitoring application using the IS-04 Query API
- a connection control application using the IS-05 Connection API

### Message

Information sent according to an NMOS API, e.g.:

- an HTTP request
- an HTTP response
- a WebSocket message

A Message can also carry payload data related to an NMOS API.

- For example the IS-07 specification uses WebSocket and MQTT transport to carry event data.
  These can be considered as Messages for the purposes of this document.
  - Although ST 2110 payload information is not considered a Message here.

## Introduction (informative)

The AMWA NMOS Interface Specifications use HTTP and WebSocket for API communications between Nodes,
network services and control applications.

This document identifies best practice for providing these communications with:

- **Confidentiality**:
    Messages passing between the Client and Server is unreadable to third parties.

- **Identification**:
    The Client can check whether the Server is owned by a trusted party.

- **Integrity**:
    It must be clear if Messages have been tampered with.

- **Authentication**:
    The Client can check if Messages actually came from the Server it is
    interacting with, and vice versa.

This is achieved as follows:

- HTTP and WebSocket communications are tunneled over TLS (i.e. they use HTTPS and WSS).
- The Server or Client sending each Message includes in it a signed hash to authenticate that it is the originator.
- The other party checks the hash to check that the Message has not been altered.
- The Server (and optionally Client) presents X.509 certificates, preferably signed by a Certificate Authority.
  - This provides a point of mutual trust to identify the parties.

A later document will cover **authorization**,
i.e. how the Server can determine whether the Client should be allowed to carry out the requested operation.

When used correctly, HTTPS provides an excellent level of security.
However it is important it is implemented well, with up-to-date versions,
and in a way that will ensure cross vendor inter-operability.
These recommendations only provide an overview of this rapidly-changing field,
and readers should see [Further Reading](#further-reading) for more detail,
and information about test software and other resources.

## TLS

### TLS Versions

Implementations SHOULD support TLS 1.3 ([RFC 8446][RFC-8446]) and SHALL support TLS 1.2 ([RFC 5246][RFC-5246]).

Note: TLS 1.3 has only recently been finalised, so is not yet mandatory here.
However, implementers should be ready to upgrade, as 1.3 may be mandatory in a future revision.

Implementations SHALL NOT use TLS 1.0 or 1.1. These are deprecated.

Implementations SHALL NOT use SSL.
Although the SSL protocol has previously been used to secure HTTP traffic,
no version of SSL is now considered secure.

### TLS 1.3 Cipher Suites

Note: TLS allows several different cipher suites;
interoperability requires the Server and Client to support at least one common suite,
which needs to be sufficiently secure.

This section applies to implementations using TLS 1.3. It is consistent with [RFC 8446][RFC-8446].

All Servers SHOULD support the following cipher suites. Servers SHOULD be configured to use the priority order listed:

TLS\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_CHACHA20\_POLY1305\_SHA256

From the above cipher suites, all Servers and Clients SHALL support the following cipher suite:

TLS\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

### TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

This section applies to implementations using TLS 1.2.

All Servers SHOULD support the following cipher suites, unless hardware limitations make this impractical.

Servers SHOULD be configured to use the priority order listed:

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_CBC\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_CBC\_SHA384

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_CBC\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_CBC\_SHA384

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_CBC\_SHA256

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_CBC\_SHA256

From the above cipher suites, all Servers and Clients SHALL support the following cipher suite. Where resources are extremely limited, this mandatory suite ensures interoperability.

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

This supersedes the recommendation in [RFC 5246 Section 9. Mandatory Cipher Suites](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246#section-9).

- More information on the rationale for requiring ECDHE is found in BBC R&D White Paper [337][BBC-WHP337].

### X.509 Certificates and Certificate Authority

Implementations SHALL use TLS with X.509 v3 certificates, as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280].

A Certificate Authority (CA) SHOULD be available to sign certificates.

- This provides a point of trust for the environment.

The CA root certificate SHALL be available to Servers and Clients.

Implementers SHOULD consider using a trusted CA service;
if a self-managed CA is used it is important to keep its private key very safe.

If a CA cannot be provided, then "self-signed" certificates MAY be exchanged
directly between Clients and Servers. However such an approach does not scale at
all well beyond the simple case with a single Client and Server (e.g. a camera and
and control unit), as it requires each Client and Server to be provisioned with the
certificate of each and every other party with which it communicates,
and certificate revocation can be a significant overhead.

Wildcard certificates SHOULD NOT be used.

Certificates SHOULD contain the Subject Alternate Name (SAN) extension. The Subject Alternate Name
field SHOULD contain the Common Name (CN), and any other names the server is known by,
[to ensure client compatibility][Digicert].

Certificates SHOULD NOT use IP addresses as the Common Name or as a Subject Alternate Name.

There SHALL be a way of revoking Certificates that are no longer needed or compromised.

The CA SHOULD support OCSP requests as per [RFC 6960][RFC-6960]
and OCSP stapling (see so that Clients can check whether certificates are compromised.)

## Server Behaviour

### Certificate Management: Server

Servers SHALL provide a means of installing X.509 certificates.
These SHOULD be signed by the CA, unless "self-signed" certificates are being used.

- See comments above.

Servers SHOULD support installation of multiple certificates,
and SHOULD support both RSA and ECDSA certificates.

- ECDSA certificates are more suited to hardware-limited cases.

Servers SHALL provide a secure mechanism to install and store the private key(s)
and key chain for their certificates.

It SHOULD be possible for a user to perform the above operations.

### HTTP: Server

_Note: as discussed in the [scope](#scope) this applies to API requests.
Secure presentation of web pages to users is not in scope._

Servers SHALL accept and respond to HTTPS requests,
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Servers SHALL NOT accept or respond to plain HTTP requests.

Servers SHOULD use the Strict-Transport-Security header as per [RFC 6797][RFC-6797]
to declare that they only will communicate with secure connections.

Servers SHALL reject all requests not explicitly allowed by the API
with HTTP response code 405 Method not allowed.

- NMOS Specifications typically define the allowed requests using RAML.

Servers SHALL validate all request payloads and reject those that are invalid
with an appropriate 4xx Client Error code.

- NMOS Specifications typically define the allowed payloads using JSON Schema
  - This includes, for example, checking string inputs with regular expressions.
- Servers SHOULD check requests are not too large (HTTP response 413).
- See OWASP's [REST Security][OWASP-REST] page for advice on appropriate codes.

Servers SHOULD log invalid requests, to help check for broken/malicious clients.

Servers SHOULD NOT use SSL compression, as this has a known vulnerability.

Implementers SHOULD consider the impact of TLS Session Tickets ([RFC 5077][RFC-5077]) on performance.

Implementers SHOULD be aware of OWASP's recommendations on
[Server Protocol and Cipher Configuration][OWASP-TRANSPORT].

Servers SHOULD be as specific as possible in the use of CORS.

- The examples in the IS-04 and IS-05 documentation are "very relaxed",
  and SHOULD NOT be used without considering whether they are appropriate.

### WebSocket: Server

This section applies to Servers providing Messages through a WebSocket connection,
for example for subscription to an AMWA IS-04 Query API.

- It SHOULD also be used to secure WebSocket connections for transport of data,
  for example AMWA IS-07 events.

Servers SHALL provide an encrypted WebSocket connection (wss: URL scheme),
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Note: this is default for IS-04 WebSocket subscriptions when using HTTPS for the Query API.

Servers SHALL NOT provided unencrypted WebSocket connection (ws: URL scheme).

### Other Protocols: Server

Other protocols used for Messages SHOULD be secured using TLS, where this is supported.

- For instance, MQTT supports use of TLS 1.2.
  - This is an alternative transport for IS-07 events.

Security of protocols where TLS is not available is outside the scope of this document.
Security of ST 2110 streams is outside the scope of this document.

### DNS-SD: Server

Servers SHALL support unicast DNS-SD to advertise their API endpoints.

Servers SHOULD NOT advertise multicast DNS-SD, except where a DNS server is not available.

- In practice, a DNS server can be expected to be available for "engineered networks".
  Multicast DNS-SD can be useful for small or temporary networks, but presents a security risk.
  Servers SHALL NOT advertise using multicast DNS-SD outside the local network.
  - As of version v1.2, AMWA IS-04 includes DNS-SD announcements of Node APIs.
    However, these may be deprecated and removed from later versions of the spec.

Servers SHALL use a name listed in the Common Name and/or Subject Alternate Name fields of its certificate
in DNS-SD advertisements whether unicast or multicast.

## Client Behaviour

### Certificate Management: Client

Clients SHALL provide a means of installing a root certificate,
and SHALL use this to check the validity of Server certificates.

Clients SHALL provide a way of removing root certificates.

Client SHOULD use OCSP Stapling to identify revoked certificates.

- For TLS 1.2, this is defined in [RFC 6961][RFC-6961].
- For TLS 1.3, it is included in the main spec [RFC 8446][RFC-8446].

It SHOULD be possible for a user to perform these operations.

- Having to return equipment to the manufacturer is not acceptable.
  Having to install firmware updates is undesirable.

### HTTP: Client

Clients SHALL make API requests using HTTPS,
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Clients SHALL NOT make API requests using plain HTTP.

Clients SHALL NOT continue communication with a Server after a failed handshake,
except with the express permission of the user.

- This is similar to the "Add Exception" that web browsers present.
  If the user wishes to continue it is at his/her own risk.
  Clients SHOULD allow a system administrator the option to disable such exceptions.

### WebSocket: Client

This section applies to Clients requesting WebSocket connections as part of an API,
for example for subscription to an AMWA IS-04 Query API,
or WebSocket connections for transport of data, for example AMWA IS-07 events.

Clients SHALL require encrypted WebSocket connections (wss:),
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Clients SHALL NOT use unencrypted WebSocket connections (ws:).

### Other Protocols: Client

Other protocols used for Messages SHOULD be secured using TLS, where this is supported.

- For example, MQTT (see comments re: Server).

### DNS-SD: Client

Clients SHOULD use unicast DNS-SD in preference to multicast DNS-SD to find API endpoints from a Server.

- However, this does not make unicast DNS-SD a substitute for a secure API.
  For instance, if the Server fails to provide a valid Certificate, the Client must not use its endpoint.
- Note that many DNS-SD client implementations return DNS names with the the trailing '.' that indicates an
  FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name), such as "api.example.com.".
  On the other hand, certificates are normally issued with CN/SANs that are DNS Names without the dot,
  like "api.example.com". During the handshake, name matching needs to take this into account.

Clients SHOULD NOT rely on DNS-SD announcements of Node API endpoints for correct operation.

- These may be deprecated and removed from later versions of the spec.

## Other Considerations

### DHCP

In most cases DHCP will be available on the network. However, it is an
insecure protocol and should not be considered as means of providing security
without the other provisions of this document.

### DNS

In most cases DNS will be available on the network. However in many cases
it should be considered insecure, and should not be considered as means of providing security
without the other provisions of this document.

- See also comments about DNS-SD [above](#dns-sd-client).

Secure deployment of DNS is currently outside the scope of this document.

## Recommendations for Future Interface Specifications

Creators of new AMWA Interface Specifications SHOULD ensure that the recommendations
of this document are followed in the Specification itself.

Organisers of interoperability testing of new Specifications SHOULD include tests of
whether implementations meet the recommendations of this document.

All those involved in creating and testing new Specifications SHOULD be aware of the
general recommendations and "Cheat Sheets" of the
[Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://www.owasp.org).
These go further than the scope of this document, and cover areas such as
access control, security tokens, audit logs and carriage of sensitive information.
See [Further Reading](#further-reading).

## Further Reading

The IETF RFCs referenced here provide much more information.

OWASP provides a number of useful "Cheat Sheets",
including [REST Security][OWASP-REST] and
[Transport Layer Protection][OWASP-TRANSPORT].

BBC R&D White Papers [337][BBC-WHP337] and [338][BBC-WHP338] provide more information about
securing NMOS APIs with TLS and PKI, and many references to online resources and
test tools. [337][BBC-WHP337] also discusses IPv6.

[RFC-2119]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119
"Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels"

[RFC-5077]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5077
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Resumption without
Server-Side State"

[RFC-5246]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246
"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2"

[RFC-5280]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile"

[RFC-6797]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6797
"HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)"

[RFC-6960]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6960
"X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certificate Status Protocol - OCSP"

[RFC-6961]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6961
"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Multiple Certificate Status Request Extension"

[RFC-8446]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446
"Transport Layer Security 1.3"

[BBC-WHP337]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/publications/whitepaper337 "HTTPS Configuration for the AMWA NMOS APIs"

[BBC-WHP338]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/publications/whitepaper338 "Public Key Infrastructure for IP Production for Broadcast"

[OWASP-REST]: https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html
"OWASP REST Security Cheat Sheet"

[OWASP-TRANSPORT]: https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html
"OWASP Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet"

[Digicert]: https://www.digicert.com/subject-alternative-name-compatibility.htm
"Subject Alternative Names: Compatibility"

Commit message:

bcp00301: add recommendation for hsts max-age value

bcp-003-01-securing-communications.md, after:

# AMWA BCP-003-01: Securing Communications in NMOS Systems
{:.no_toc}

* A markdown unordered list which will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents header" from above
{:toc}

## Scope

This document specifies how to secure communications used for HTTP and WebSocket communications within NMOS APIs.

This is based on best practice used for HTTPS, and is intended to promote a secure approach to interoperability.

The recommendations are also suitable for other APIs beyond NMOS.

Use of insecure communication (plain HTTP etc.) is forbidden within the scope of this document.

Fine-grained Client authorization --
providing a mechanism to determine what actions a Client may take against an API --
is not in scope, but may be part of a future revision.

Use of HTTP/2 is not in scope, but may be part of a future revision.

Securing video and audio transport is not in scope.

Although security of web pages presented to users is also important,
this is outside the scope of this document, which is concerned only with APIs.

## Use of Normative Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][RFC-2119].

## Normative References

These appear at the end of the Markdown source for this document,
and are referenced as hyperlinks within the main body.

## Definitions

_See also the NMOS Glossary, and definitions within RFCs._

### API

An HTTP / WebSocket API as defined in an AMWA NMOS Specification (IS-04, IS-05, IS-06, etc.)

### Server

The entity that is providing the API, for example:

- a registry implementing IS-04 Registration and Query APIs
- a Node implementing IS-04 Node API and IS-05 Connection API

### Client

The entity that is using the API, for example:

- a Node using the IS-04 Registration API
- a monitoring application using the IS-04 Query API
- a connection control application using the IS-05 Connection API

### Message

Information sent according to an NMOS API, e.g.:

- an HTTP request
- an HTTP response
- a WebSocket message

A Message can also carry payload data related to an NMOS API.

- For example the IS-07 specification uses WebSocket and MQTT transport to carry event data.
  These can be considered as Messages for the purposes of this document.
  - Although ST 2110 payload information is not considered a Message here.

## Introduction (informative)

The AMWA NMOS Interface Specifications use HTTP and WebSocket for API communications between Nodes,
network services and control applications.

This document identifies best practice for providing these communications with:

- **Confidentiality**:
    Messages passing between the Client and Server is unreadable to third parties.

- **Identification**:
    The Client can check whether the Server is owned by a trusted party.

- **Integrity**:
    It must be clear if Messages have been tampered with.

- **Authentication**:
    The Client can check if Messages actually came from the Server it is
    interacting with, and vice versa.

This is achieved as follows:

- HTTP and WebSocket communications are tunneled over TLS (i.e. they use HTTPS and WSS).
- The Server or Client sending each Message includes in it a signed hash to authenticate that it is the originator.
- The other party checks the hash to check that the Message has not been altered.
- The Server (and optionally Client) presents X.509 certificates, preferably signed by a Certificate Authority.
  - This provides a point of mutual trust to identify the parties.

A later document will cover **authorization**,
i.e. how the Server can determine whether the Client should be allowed to carry out the requested operation.

When used correctly, HTTPS provides an excellent level of security.
However it is important it is implemented well, with up-to-date versions,
and in a way that will ensure cross vendor inter-operability.
These recommendations only provide an overview of this rapidly-changing field,
and readers should see [Further Reading](#further-reading) for more detail,
and information about test software and other resources.

## TLS

### TLS Versions

Implementations SHOULD support TLS 1.3 ([RFC 8446][RFC-8446]) and SHALL support TLS 1.2 ([RFC 5246][RFC-5246]).

Note: TLS 1.3 has only recently been finalised, so is not yet mandatory here.
However, implementers should be ready to upgrade, as 1.3 may be mandatory in a future revision.

Implementations SHALL NOT use TLS 1.0 or 1.1. These are deprecated.

Implementations SHALL NOT use SSL.
Although the SSL protocol has previously been used to secure HTTP traffic,
no version of SSL is now considered secure.

### TLS 1.3 Cipher Suites

Note: TLS allows several different cipher suites;
interoperability requires the Server and Client to support at least one common suite,
which needs to be sufficiently secure.

This section applies to implementations using TLS 1.3. It is consistent with [RFC 8446][RFC-8446].

All Servers SHOULD support the following cipher suites. Servers SHOULD be configured to use the priority order listed:

TLS\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_CHACHA20\_POLY1305\_SHA256

From the above cipher suites, all Servers and Clients SHALL support the following cipher suite:

TLS\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

### TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

This section applies to implementations using TLS 1.2.

All Servers SHOULD support the following cipher suites, unless hardware limitations make this impractical.

Servers SHOULD be configured to use the priority order listed:

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_CBC\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_ECDSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_CBC\_SHA384

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_CBC\_SHA256

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_CBC\_SHA384

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_CBC\_SHA256

TLS\_DHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_256\_CBC\_SHA256

From the above cipher suites, all Servers and Clients SHALL support the following cipher suite. Where resources are extremely limited, this mandatory suite ensures interoperability.

TLS\_ECDHE\_RSA\_WITH\_AES\_128\_GCM\_SHA256

This supersedes the recommendation in [RFC 5246 Section 9. Mandatory Cipher Suites](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246#section-9).

- More information on the rationale for requiring ECDHE is found in BBC R&D White Paper [337][BBC-WHP337].

### X.509 Certificates and Certificate Authority

Implementations SHALL use TLS with X.509 v3 certificates, as per [RFC 5280][RFC-5280].

A Certificate Authority (CA) SHOULD be available to sign certificates.

- This provides a point of trust for the environment.

The CA root certificate SHALL be available to Servers and Clients.

Implementers SHOULD consider using a trusted CA service;
if a self-managed CA is used it is important to keep its private key very safe.

If a CA cannot be provided, then "self-signed" certificates MAY be exchanged
directly between Clients and Servers. However such an approach does not scale at
all well beyond the simple case with a single Client and Server (e.g. a camera and
and control unit), as it requires each Client and Server to be provisioned with the
certificate of each and every other party with which it communicates,
and certificate revocation can be a significant overhead.

Wildcard certificates SHOULD NOT be used.

Certificates SHOULD contain the Subject Alternate Name (SAN) extension. The Subject Alternate Name
field SHOULD contain the Common Name (CN), and any other names the server is known by,
[to ensure client compatibility][Digicert].

Certificates SHOULD NOT use IP addresses as the Common Name or as a Subject Alternate Name.

There SHALL be a way of revoking Certificates that are no longer needed or compromised.

The CA SHOULD support OCSP requests as per [RFC 6960][RFC-6960]
and OCSP stapling (see so that Clients can check whether certificates are compromised.)

## Server Behaviour

### Certificate Management: Server

Servers SHALL provide a means of installing X.509 certificates.
These SHOULD be signed by the CA, unless "self-signed" certificates are being used.

- See comments above.

Servers SHOULD support installation of multiple certificates,
and SHOULD support both RSA and ECDSA certificates.

- ECDSA certificates are more suited to hardware-limited cases.

Servers SHALL provide a secure mechanism to install and store the private key(s)
and key chain for their certificates.

It SHOULD be possible for a user to perform the above operations.

### HTTP: Server

_Note: as discussed in the [scope](#scope) this applies to API requests.
Secure presentation of web pages to users is not in scope._

Servers SHALL accept and respond to HTTPS requests,
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Servers SHALL NOT accept or respond to plain HTTP requests.

Servers SHOULD use the Strict-Transport-Security header as per [RFC 6797][RFC-6797]
to declare that they only will communicate with secure connections.

When using Strict-Transport-Security it is RECOMMENDED that Servers utilise a
minimum 'max-age' value of '31536000' (12 months) in production deployments.
Servers SHOULD allow this header to be adjusted or disabled via user configuration.

Servers SHALL reject all requests not explicitly allowed by the API
with HTTP response code 405 Method not allowed.

- NMOS Specifications typically define the allowed requests using RAML.

Servers SHALL validate all request payloads and reject those that are invalid
with an appropriate 4xx Client Error code.

- NMOS Specifications typically define the allowed payloads using JSON Schema
  - This includes, for example, checking string inputs with regular expressions.
- Servers SHOULD check requests are not too large (HTTP response 413).
- See OWASP's [REST Security][OWASP-REST] page for advice on appropriate codes.

Servers SHOULD log invalid requests, to help check for broken/malicious clients.

Servers SHOULD NOT use SSL compression, as this has a known vulnerability.

Implementers SHOULD consider the impact of TLS Session Tickets ([RFC 5077][RFC-5077]) on performance.

Implementers SHOULD be aware of OWASP's recommendations on
[Server Protocol and Cipher Configuration][OWASP-TRANSPORT].

Servers SHOULD be as specific as possible in the use of CORS.

- The examples in the IS-04 and IS-05 documentation are "very relaxed",
  and SHOULD NOT be used without considering whether they are appropriate.

### WebSocket: Server

This section applies to Servers providing Messages through a WebSocket connection,
for example for subscription to an AMWA IS-04 Query API.

- It SHOULD also be used to secure WebSocket connections for transport of data,
  for example AMWA IS-07 events.

Servers SHALL provide an encrypted WebSocket connection (wss: URL scheme),
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Note: this is default for IS-04 WebSocket subscriptions when using HTTPS for the Query API.

Servers SHALL NOT provided unencrypted WebSocket connection (ws: URL scheme).

### Other Protocols: Server

Other protocols used for Messages SHOULD be secured using TLS, where this is supported.

- For instance, MQTT supports use of TLS 1.2.
  - This is an alternative transport for IS-07 events.

Security of protocols where TLS is not available is outside the scope of this document.
Security of ST 2110 streams is outside the scope of this document.

### DNS-SD: Server

Servers SHALL support unicast DNS-SD to advertise their API endpoints.

Servers SHOULD NOT advertise multicast DNS-SD, except where a DNS server is not available.

- In practice, a DNS server can be expected to be available for "engineered networks".
  Multicast DNS-SD can be useful for small or temporary networks, but presents a security risk.
  Servers SHALL NOT advertise using multicast DNS-SD outside the local network.
  - As of version v1.2, AMWA IS-04 includes DNS-SD announcements of Node APIs.
    However, these may be deprecated and removed from later versions of the spec.

Servers SHALL use a name listed in the Common Name and/or Subject Alternate Name fields of its certificate
in DNS-SD advertisements whether unicast or multicast.

## Client Behaviour

### Certificate Management: Client

Clients SHALL provide a means of installing a root certificate,
and SHALL use this to check the validity of Server certificates.

Clients SHALL provide a way of removing root certificates.

Client SHOULD use OCSP Stapling to identify revoked certificates.

- For TLS 1.2, this is defined in [RFC 6961][RFC-6961].
- For TLS 1.3, it is included in the main spec [RFC 8446][RFC-8446].

It SHOULD be possible for a user to perform these operations.

- Having to return equipment to the manufacturer is not acceptable.
  Having to install firmware updates is undesirable.

### HTTP: Client

Clients SHALL make API requests using HTTPS,
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Clients SHALL NOT make API requests using plain HTTP.

Clients SHALL NOT continue communication with a Server after a failed handshake,
except with the express permission of the user.

- This is similar to the "Add Exception" that web browsers present.
  If the user wishes to continue it is at his/her own risk.
  Clients SHOULD allow a system administrator the option to disable such exceptions.

### WebSocket: Client

This section applies to Clients requesting WebSocket connections as part of an API,
for example for subscription to an AMWA IS-04 Query API,
or WebSocket connections for transport of data, for example AMWA IS-07 events.

Clients SHALL require encrypted WebSocket connections (wss:),
using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by [TLS](#tls).

Clients SHALL NOT use unencrypted WebSocket connections (ws:).

### Other Protocols: Client

Other protocols used for Messages SHOULD be secured using TLS, where this is supported.

- For example, MQTT (see comments re: Server).

### DNS-SD: Client

Clients SHOULD use unicast DNS-SD in preference to multicast DNS-SD to find API endpoints from a Server.

- However, this does not make unicast DNS-SD a substitute for a secure API.
  For instance, if the Server fails to provide a valid Certificate, the Client must not use its endpoint.
- Note that many DNS-SD client implementations return DNS names with the the trailing '.' that indicates an
  FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name), such as "api.example.com.".
  On the other hand, certificates are normally issued with CN/SANs that are DNS Names without the dot,
  like "api.example.com". During the handshake, name matching needs to take this into account.

Clients SHOULD NOT rely on DNS-SD announcements of Node API endpoints for correct operation.

- These may be deprecated and removed from later versions of the spec.

## Other Considerations

### DHCP

In most cases DHCP will be available on the network. However, it is an
insecure protocol and should not be considered as means of providing security
without the other provisions of this document.

### DNS

In most cases DNS will be available on the network. However in many cases
it should be considered insecure, and should not be considered as means of providing security
without the other provisions of this document.

- See also comments about DNS-SD [above](#dns-sd-client).

Secure deployment of DNS is currently outside the scope of this document.

## Recommendations for Future Interface Specifications

Creators of new AMWA Interface Specifications SHOULD ensure that the recommendations
of this document are followed in the Specification itself.

Organisers of interoperability testing of new Specifications SHOULD include tests of
whether implementations meet the recommendations of this document.

All those involved in creating and testing new Specifications SHOULD be aware of the
general recommendations and "Cheat Sheets" of the
[Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://www.owasp.org).
These go further than the scope of this document, and cover areas such as
access control, security tokens, audit logs and carriage of sensitive information.
See [Further Reading](#further-reading).

## Further Reading

The IETF RFCs referenced here provide much more information.

OWASP provides a number of useful "Cheat Sheets",
including [REST Security][OWASP-REST] and
[Transport Layer Protection][OWASP-TRANSPORT].

BBC R&D White Papers [337][BBC-WHP337] and [338][BBC-WHP338] provide more information about
securing NMOS APIs with TLS and PKI, and many references to online resources and
test tools. [337][BBC-WHP337] also discusses IPv6.

[RFC-2119]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119
"Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels"

[RFC-5077]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5077
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Resumption without
Server-Side State"

[RFC-5246]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246
"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2"

[RFC-5280]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile"

[RFC-6797]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6797
"HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)"

[RFC-6960]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6960
"X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certificate Status Protocol - OCSP"

[RFC-6961]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6961
"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Multiple Certificate Status Request Extension"

[RFC-8446]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446
"Transport Layer Security 1.3"

[BBC-WHP337]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/publications/whitepaper337 "HTTPS Configuration for the AMWA NMOS APIs"

[BBC-WHP338]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/publications/whitepaper338 "Public Key Infrastructure for IP Production for Broadcast"

[OWASP-REST]: https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html
"OWASP REST Security Cheat Sheet"

[OWASP-TRANSPORT]: https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html
"OWASP Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet"

[Digicert]: https://www.digicert.com/subject-alternative-name-compatibility.htm
"Subject Alternative Names: Compatibility"
